# The Rooms Pictures

In mid 2024, I played a Minecraft horror modpack ([Dread](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/modpacks/dread-arrenek)) with my friends.

The effect of the horror pack wore off after a day or two (as with all "horror mods"), but the bundled shaders were still atmospheric. In one of our mineshafts, I made a long, dark tunnel out of wood, maybe forty blocks under the ground. It had slabs for the floor and ceiling, and wooden pillars every four or five blocks. It was a narrow and tall corridor (1x3) that stretched on for fifty blocks or so. At the end, there was a trapdoor that you could use to enter crawling mode and continue down another secret corridor. It eventually terminated in a claustrophobic sauna-looking room with a dim campfire and seats. If you were in the room for long enough, you might notice that flipping certain trapdoors would open up access to other secret rooms. The first "sauna room" was connected to maybe three or four more, of those connected to others. The only way to get from room-to-room was by crawling through secret access ports by flipping trapdoors. We called it "The Rooms."

The Rooms were composed primarily of spruce planks, logs, barrels, trapdoors, slabs, and stairs. The only light source were campfires, since there was an exploit that allowed them to burn forever (the torches burned out after twenty-ish minutes). Some of the rooms were 3x2x3, while some were larger, more complex areas with dimensions upwards of 12x4x12. We built The Rooms while we were already pretty sleepy, so it added to the ethereal feeling. The most fun parts about them were the secrets upon secrets, non-euclidean-like geometry, and building comfortable yet eerie chambers of a limited spruce block palette. I remember making a ventilation system throughout The Rooms, leading to a huge vertical cavernous spruce cave. It was disconnected from the rest of the structure my friends built, so you had to go through another system of chambers to get back out. When you entered the space, you were at the top of a twenty-block drop into a vaguely cone-shaped room lit by campfires behind trapdoors in the walls. Once you fell, you had to find a certain block in the wall to enter the next chamber, following the same theme as the rest of The Rooms. Even in that most secret of secret chambers, there were still nooks that you could enter in and hide.
